.\" Man page for pssh.  See "man 7 man" and "man man-pages" for formatting info.
.TH pssh 1 "February 25, 2010"

.SH NAME
pssh \(em parallel ssh program


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pssh
.RB [ \-vAiIP ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR hosts_file ]
.RB [ \-H
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]]
.RB [ \-l
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR par ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR outdir ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR errdir ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR options ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR args ]
.RB [ \-X
.IR arg ]
.I command ...

.B pssh \-I
.RB [ \-vAiIP ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR hosts_file ]
.RB [ \-H
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]]
.RB [ \-l
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR par ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR outdir ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR errdir ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR options ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR args ]
.RB [ \-X
.IR arg ]
.RI [ command
.IR ... ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pssh
is a program for executing ssh in parallel on a number of hosts.  It provides
features such as sending input to all of the processes, passing a password
to ssh, saving output to files, and timing out.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-h " host_file"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-hosts " host_file"
Read hosts from the given
.IR host_file .
Lines in the host file are of the form
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
and can include blank lines and comments (lines beginning with "#").
If multiple host files are given (the
.B \-h
option is used more than once), then pssh behaves as though these files
were concatenated together.
If a host is specified specified multiple times, then pssh will connect the
given number of times.

.TP
.B \-H
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-host
.RI [ user @] host [: port ]
.PD 0
.IP
Add the given host to the list of hosts.  This option may be given multiple
times and in conjunction with the
.B \-h
option.

.TP
.BI \-l " user"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-user " user"
Use the given username as the default for any host entries that don't
specifically specify a user.

.TP
.BI \-p " parallelism"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-par " parallelism"
Use the given number as the maximum number of concurrent connections.

.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " timeout"
Make connections time out after the given number of seconds.

.TP
.BI \-o " outdir"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-outdir " outdir"
Save standard output to files in the given directory.  Filenames are of the
form
.RI [ user @] host [: port ][. num ]
where the user and port are only included for hosts that explicitly
specify them.  The number is a counter that is incremented each time for hosts
that are specified more than once.

.TP
.BI \-e " errdir"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-errdir " errdir"
Save standard error to files in the given directory.  Filenames are of the
same form as with the
.B \-o
option.

.TP
.BI \-x " args"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-extra-args " args"
Passes a extra SSH command-line arguments (see the
.BR ssh (1) 
man page for more information about SSH arguments).
This option may be specified multiple times.
The arguments are processed to split on whitespace, protect text within
quotes, and escape with backslashes.
To pass arguments without such processing, use the
.B \-X
option instead.

.TP
.BI \-X " arg"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-extra-arg " arg"
Passes a single SSH command-line argument (see the
.BR ssh (1) 
man page for more information about SSH arguments).  Unlike the
.B \-x
option, no processing is performed on the argument, including word splitting.
To pass multiple command-line arguments, use the option once for each
argument.

.TP
.BI \-O " options"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-\-options " options"
SSH options in the format used in the SSH configuration file (see the
.BR ssh_config (5) 
man page for more information).  This option may be specified multiple
times.

.TP
.B \-A
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-askpass
Prompt for a password and pass it to ssh.  The password may be used for
either to unlock a key or for password authentication.
The password is transferred in a fairly secure manner (e.g., it will not show
up in argument lists).  However, be aware that a root user on your system
could potentially intercept the password.

.TP
.B \-i
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-inline
Display standard output and standard error as each host completes.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Include error messages from ssh with the
.B \-i
and
.B \e
options.

.TP
.B \-I
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-send-input
Read input and send to each ssh process.  Since ssh allows a command script to
be sent on standard input, the
.B \-I
option may be used in lieu of the command argument.

.TP
.B \-P
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-print
Display output as it arrives.  This option is of limited usefulness because
output from different hosts are interleaved.


.SH EXAMPLE

Examples go here.


.SH AUTHORS
Written by
Brent N. Chun <bnc@theether.org> and
Andrew McNabb <amcnabb@mcnabbs.org>.

http://code.google.com/p/parallel-ssh/


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR pscp (1),
.BR prsync (1),
.BR pslurp (1),
.BR pnuke (1)
